so now when I do businesses when I start
with money two I already know most the
mistakes to avoid three and this is one
of the biggest ones I hire amazing
leadership
new thank you so much for coming for
joining us today uh it's a pleasure to
have you here talking to us Brazilians
and hopefully you'll teach a lot about
SEO digital marketing and also about
your life because you're very young and
you have a huge amount of success hope
you share with us teach a lot and thank
you so much for coming and thank you for
having me okay uh I was hoping you were
talking a little bit more it's like a
monosyllabic something okay but thank
you so much and new
um were you in Brazil like for something
or did you come to talk with us what was
that so I came for there's a conference
called I think HSM plus I I think I'm
getting the name right HSM yeah yeah so
I came for that and then we have uh
maybe 150 160 something like that people
that work for us in Brazil a lot of them
in Sao Paulo so also came to meet the
team because I haven't come here uh
until kovitz started but before that I
used to come sometime six times a year
wow six times a year and you usually uh
came here because you had business here
yes because we do the marketing for a
lot of the large corporations in uh
Brazil and there's also a lot of
American companies that expand into
Latin America okay so we help them with
their expansion to countries like Brazil
okay that's cool because you can reduce
their CAC coming here and maybe they are
not uh very used to New Markets so it's
a good way of having some new clients
right using SEO and let me tell you let
me tell you how I first met you before
we talked
um I'm young I think I have 32 years old
I have 32 years here I am yeah I'm young
uh and I produce content a lot about
marketing business and finance and maybe
10 years ago
uh no not 10 years ago but 13 years ago
I was a financial advisor and later I
started processing content in the
internet
and I was partner of hiko hiku yeah we
used to do the marketing hiko and then
it turned into hiko XP right yes yes
then XP bought uh hiko from Monica that
you met there yeah and I I was a partner
of hiku and when I was partnering and
trying to help clients invest through
hiko I knew your job for the first time
and I wasn't very good at SEO so you
were one of our first and bigger
references here in Brazil and I learned
a lot so thank you so much in person I
think and this was the first time I met
you and tell me a bit more about your
business because you're not from Brazil
you have a business here how your
business operates around the world sure
so we're in quite a few countries we
have around we're getting close to 800
people globally
um I don't know how many will be at the
end of next year but we just added
Germany we're now uh soon we're going to
be expanding into France Italy Spain and
Portugal so we're adding in four more
countries wow um but we have an ad
agency called NP digital
so think of some of the biggest publicly
traded companies you know that are
traded on the stock market we help them
with their marketing globally
see the way it came about Brazil was
years and years ago there was a company
called hotmart that invited me to speak
at their conference yes
yes and when I spoke at the conference I
saw so much potential in the people here
in Brazil and the companies in Brazil
and I was just like this is going to be
a massive country for business
and I remember I met up with a gentleman
named Andres Steves who created uh btg
Pac-12 and during my meeting with him we
were sitting down
and he was speaking to me and he was
just like Neil Brazil's like the Wild
Wild West this is in its early stages
like it was in America there's just tons
and tons of opportunity and my meeting
with him was long I think it lasted
almost two three hours wow and we were
just there was no purpose we were just
talking about life and business and
um investing and where I put some of my
money people should do it more often
right yes they should uh and you know
from there I was just like you know what
we need to expand into Brazil so we
expanded into Brazil we first started in
Brazil helping our American companies
that were publicly trying to expand into
here and then we started working with a
lot of the large uh companies here in
Brazil and many of them are publicly
traded as well okay but you'll have 800
employees nowadays when did you start
your company
uh because you said how you started here
in Brazil but when did you start your
company the first employee and all that
the first employee believe it or not was
five years ago but in Brazil marink is
sitting in front of us he's just like I
want to set up operations for you in
Brazil we didn't have a company at the
time and I said go for it let's start it
off here but we officially started in
the US five years ago technically five
years in one month so October was our
five year anniversary wow and how did
you became so famous I mean
um you use it to produce content like
way before creating your company right
no no you're right but I'm not famous
you're considered famous no you're
famous for us you have a lot of
authority and you have uh like I asked a
lot of people here in the office uh if
they knew you because you're coming
today and all of my leaders and head of
business knew you so maybe you you
uh it's mainly with Executives
Executives business owners CEOs that is
the majority of the people that know me
at least in Brazil
um but yeah no it's before that I so I'm
a Serial entrepreneur just like you did
businesses and many different things
before this like you mentioned you're an
investment advisor right yeah so I had
quite a few software companies this is
my latest startup some were successful
some did really really well some did
very poorly but the overall the ones
that did well made up for everything
it's just like investing you pick one
stock something
go wrong and you can lose money you pick
a handful and if you really study what
you're investing in and you pick the
right ones overall you should do good in
the long run that's the thing about the
entrepreneurship you don't need to like
get everything right you just just in
one good yes uh thing you've done
correctly and it's it's good for you but
you told me some of your business went
poorly I mean can you tell us the story
of a poor poorly received uh company
from the audience or the customer
perspective so everyone is probably
familiar with Amazon AWS cloud computing
right you put a website it goes into the
cloud or also on servers all around the
world
and these are shared resources that many
different people can use because years
ago the way servers worked was
you guys or iwitter itiu would have one
server when they're starting off but
they may not use all the space but
they're paying for it it was very
inefficient
so years and years ago I met a group of
people
and I funded over a million dollars this
is
this is probably 18 years ago so back
then a million dollars was more right so
you know
um so I spent a million dollars into
building a cloud computing company
before AWS was even starting
and spent quite a bit of money and it
didn't work out we had the right idea
look how big AWS is from Amazon it's uh
potentially half a trillion maybe even a
trillion dollar business right just the
AWS portion
and when you look at that the reason our
business didn't work out well was great
idea poor execution it was the wrong
people who weren't subject matter
experts it's like
you give people investment advice
because you truly understand investing
you may be young but you're expert in
investing and you know it well because
you've been doing it for such a long
time and you continually learning more
and more and fine-tuning your craft when
it comes to investing and just getting
better at picking let's say right
companies right stocks
but you're expert so the moment you put
money into people who aren't good it's a
big mistake and that was one of my
earlier mistakes that I made wow so uh
getting right idea with poor is
execution or a poor timing is also being
wrong right that's correct yes a lot of
good inventions uh were created before
the market was ready and they didn't go
very well right I'm not sure if the
market wasn't ready or the execution
were poor but uh or both of both like
look you're very popular on YouTube I've
seen your videos on YouTube and
Instagram
did you know that Vimeo was before
YouTube they went through a lot of
lawsuits got bloody uh didn't do well it
was either it started with the V I'm
pretty sure it was called Vimeo but it
was based out of San Diego this
entrepreneur I met and I think I'm
pretty sure the name started with the V
but I think it was called Vimeo he ended
up having tons of lawsuits getting
bloody great ideas the same concept as
YouTube but after he was done with all
the legal troubles and poor execution
YouTube came out out executed him they
didn't have to deal with the legal
issues and boom they blew up let me ask
you something why do you think your
business became successful like what are
the pillars that made it this way and
others didn't
so now when I create businesses is it's
it's I it's like almost like I'm
cheating really why because I've been an
entrepreneur for over 20 years and I
have money so when I started this
current business I put five million
dollars of my own money from day one
and then I bought more companies and
then you know like let's say in February
I spent another 8.6 million dollars of
my own money
I I'm not starting from scratch I I have
money at this point so it makes it
easier and the money is my money so I
don't have to go to investor or a board
meeting each of them I do whatever I
want right so having Capital just allows
you to move so much faster and be more
aggressive so that's one two I've been
doing this long enough
when you started doing investment advice
I bet you you're much better now than
you were 10 years ago you've learned a
lot right yeah
so it's the same thing when I first
started as an entrepreneur 20 years ago
I made so many mistakes I'm not the
smartest person but over time the way
the the reason I got to where I am today
is I learned from my mistakes
see I didn't go to Harvard I didn't go
to Yale or Stanford or MIT but the way I
learned how to become successful is I
made so many mistakes eventually I said
if I don't make that same mistake over
and over again and I learn from it then
the things I will be focusing on would
be the things you should be doing
because I've already made most of the
mistakes
so now when I do businesses when I start
with money two I already know most the
mistakes to avoid three and this is one
of the biggest ones I hire amazing
leadership
so I'll put in CEOs and managers and
operations people from my industry who
have been part of other successful
companies before like the CEO I put in
place for this current company his name
is Mike gullickson he was a president at
a company called iprospect which was
owned by densu which is a publicly
traded uh Japanese conglomerate I think
they have 60 70 000 employees Maybe
and the division he ran as a president
had
I think close to 5 000 employees so he
already ran a competitor who was bigger
so I will go and get amazing people from
my industry who are already very
successful
and give them a lot of money to join my
company
and when I mean he was successful not
only did he run a 5 000 plus company
before that he ran a company in the same
space that sold for over 50 million
dollars before that he was the head of
sales and operations for a company to
that sold to Hearst I believe for three
four hundred million dollars this is 10
plus years ago so if you keep hiring
people who have a track record of being
successful in your space
you're much more likely to succeed yeah
yeah it's interesting to hear you say
that it's unfair because it kind of is
but I also saw a lot of good
entrepreneurs with a lot of money some
of them billionaires that went bankrupt
from night to day and in your opinion
and you probably knew some guys that fit
this perfect example but what do you
think makes you
uh confident about not uh doing these
mistakes that some may be wealthier more
intelligent uh with more results than
you maybe uh got wrong
so entrepreneurship is a little bit
about dreaming and believing in yourself
so I'm crazy
and here's what I mean by crazy I think
I can do anything and I know that's not
true I'm not good at playing soccer like
Neymar I will never be as good as him or
Messi or Ronaldo I don't have that
ability but in business I think I'm one
of the best not one of the best like at
Elon Musk but I'm talking about within
my space okay so Myspace is marketing
right I'm not good like Elon Musk
sending Rockets into space I believe
he's much better than me but in the
marketing vertical I believe I'm one of
the best a little bit of arrogance but
that's just my belief and because I
believe in myself and I continually try
to learn more and more and I never stop
that's why I'm super confident see you
mentioned you're 32 correct yeah
if you're 32 I'm 37 or if you were 19 I
don't care what age you are I believe I
can always learn from someone so if you
worked at you know empiricals or Rico
and you're just starting out and you're
telling me Neil you can do this better
you can do that better I would learn and
being open-minded and always learning
from people doesn't matter how much
money they have but being open to learn
from anyone has really helped me succeed
because it allows you to get way more
ideas and some of the best ideas come
from young people who don't have a
proven track record yes yes something
I'm I'm thinking a lot
on the past recent days is that I think
entrepreneurs should uh really focus on
like finding their talent
somehow because I feel you are talented
in marketing and talented with hard work
the hustling part of it uh makes your
success very big and makes you confident
even though you know a lot of people are
very good at marketing also because
maybe you found your talent do you feel
talented in marketing the marketing area
I do so
I'm a big believer that a lot of people
who are young who want to be
entrepreneurs what they do is they go
and start their own business I actually
believe they should try to do two things
first one work for companies like yours
because they can learn a lot of skills
they can learn how you do marketing they
can learn how you do fulfillment they
can learn how you do customer success
they can learn how you do operations
these are all valuable skill sets
two I also recommend that they try out a
lot of different things see it's really
hard to figure out what you're talented
on unless you try a lot of things and
then you'll figure out oh I like this
and I'm good at this because you need to
not only be talented at but you also
have to like it because if you don't
like it you won't put in the hours see
you're talented but if you had talent
and you hated what you're doing you
wouldn't put in all these hours
because you love what you're doing and
you're talented that is why your company
is successful you need both of those and
then the first thing I mentioned is you
should work for companies like yours or
others where you can learn a lot from
even if it's only for a year or two you
can just learn so much versus doing
everything on your own and making so
many mistakes yeah
I usually feel that uh you can be
talented in something and don't love it
but I feel it the odds are more likely
to uh show you like you love the area
you're talented in because everybody
says you're good at it and it's easier
right but see I curiosity of my my life
is when I started producing content I
didn't start producing a video I started
with a Blog called oprimojiko right here
in Brazil and I was producing a lot
about previdencia Privada it's a kind of
investment here in Brazil and I started
producing this blog and it really took
like one to two years to start to give
me some results
uh but people think I started as a
YouTuber or something producing content
like and all the people that knows you
and I asked them active proactively uh
what you were known for they told me it
was because of SEO yeah and this is
something I really studied and studied
very hard on my my initial days in the
internet can you give us like a
definition of SEO so SEO stands for
search engine optimization whenever you
do a search on Google at the top you see
the paid result it says sponsored or
advertising and then underneath you see
the results that Google's algorithm puts
there for free
so to get your website there you have to
do something called SEO or also called
search engine optimization you have to
put in keywords in your website write
content related to those terms you have
to make sure your website loads fast you
have to build content that's popular get
social shares gets other websites to
link to yours you have to optimize your
code so that way a search engine can
understand and read your code right
these are all factors that go into SEO
but they say there's over 200 factors in
Google's algorithm to give you idea